Step 1: Install OpenSSH Server
Open Settings:

Click on the Start menu and then Settings (gear icon).
Go to Apps:

Navigate to Apps > Optional Features.
Add a Feature:

Scroll down and click on Add a feature.
Search for OpenSSH Server:

In the search box, type "OpenSSH Server".
Select "OpenSSH Server" from the list and click Install.
Step 2: Start the OpenSSH SSH Server Service
Open Services:

Press Win + R, type services.msc, and press Enter.
Locate the OpenSSH SSH Server:

Scroll down the list to find "OpenSSH SSH Server".
Start the Service:

Right-click on "OpenSSH SSH Server" and select Start.
Set to Start Automatically (Optional):

Right-click on "OpenSSH SSH Server", select Properties, and set the "Startup type" to Automatic so it starts every time your computer boots.
Step 3: Verify and Configure the Server
Check the Default Port:

By default, the SSH server listens on port 22. If you need to check or change this, you can edit the sshd_config file located in C:\ProgramData\ssh\.
Allow Through Firewall:

Ensure that your Windows Firewall allows SSH traffic on port 22.
Step 4: Connect Using PuTTY
Open PuTTY:

Enter 127.0.0.1 in the Host Name field and 22 in the Port field.
Start the Connection:

Click Open to start the SSH session.
After following these steps, you should be able to connect to your local machine using PuTTY and 127.0.0.1. If you encounter any issues, let me know!

or through powershell

Start the OpenSSH Server:
Open PowerShell as Administrator and run:
powershell

Start-Service sshd
To make it start automatically with your system, you can enable it:
powershell

Set-Service -Name sshd -StartupType 'Automatic'
3. Allow SSH through the Firewall:
Ensure that your firewall is not blocking the SSH service:
powershell
Start the OpenSSH Server:
Open PowerShell as Administrator and run:
powershell

Start-Service sshd
To make it start automatically with your system, you can enable it:
powershell

Set-Service -Name sshd -StartupType 'Automatic'
3. Allow SSH through the Firewall:
Ensure that your firewall is not blocking the SSH service:
powershell

New-NetFirewallRule -Name sshd -DisplayName 'OpenSSH Server (sshd)' -Enabled True -Dir

1. use 127.0.0.1 or localhost to connect 
2. use system user and password to login

There are two users specific users like root and oracle serve for diff purpose
1. root:- for full access of your system administration it can do installation and configuration of oracle software or any software
2. 


-----To run all linux command in windows same like linux
--1. Goto control panel programs -->add features -->select Windows subsystem for linux distributions
--2. Then download unbuntu from windows playstore
--3. Then create and configure account
--4. Run command in powershell  
wsl --list --verbose

my linux ip
172.27.31.253

---after ubuntu account created
--1. login in ubuntu server
--2. sudo apt update
sudo apt install openssh-server
--3. sudo service ssh start
--4. sudo netstat -tuln | grep :22   ---to check whether services running or not


---To access windows file from wsl(ubuntu) 
use
C: Drive:
You can access your C: drive at /mnt/c/. For example:

bash
Copy code
cd /mnt/c/Users/YourUsername/Documents
ls
D: Drive (if you have one):
You can access the D: drive at /mnt/d/.

---To access windows file from wsl(windows) 
same as linux





